--- ARTICLE 1 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/news/304195/One-new-COVID-19-case-reported-in-24-hours
TITLE: One new COVID-19 case reported in 24 hours | News
DATE: 22 Aug 2025, 18:40

DHAKA, Aug 22, 2025 (BSS) - The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) today confirmed one new Covid-19 infections in the country over a 24-hour period from 8 am Thursday to 8 am Friday. A total of 31 samples were tested during this time, yielding a positivity rate of 3.23 percent, according to a statement of the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS).

However, no one died from COVID-19 during this period. The cumulative death toll since the pandemic began in 2020 stands at 29,530.

The first case of corona virus was detected in the country on March 8, 2020. Ten days later, on March 18 of the same year, the first person died from the virus in the country.

--- ARTICLE 2 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/news-flash/304791/Ishaq-Dar-exchanges-pleasantries-with-Khaleda-Zia,-wishes-her-swift-recovery:-Dr-Zahid
TITLE: Ishaq Dar exchanges pleasantries with Khaleda Zia, wishes her swift recovery: Dr Zahid | News Flash
DATE: 24 Aug 2025, 19:57

DHAKA, Aug 24, 2025 (BSS) – BNP Standing Committee Member Professor Dr AZM Zahid Hossain said Pakistan's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Muhammad Ishaq Dar visited BNP Chairperson Khaleda Zia to inquire about her health and wished her a speedy recovery. The meeting took place at around 7 pm at Khaleda Zia's Gulshan residence ‘Firoza’. The visit lasted approximately 45 minutes. BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir and Professor Dr AZM Zahid Hossain were present during the meeting. A six-member delegation, including Pakistan's High Commissioner Imran Haider, accompanied Ishaq Dar during the visit. After the meeting, Dr Zahid briefed journalists, saying that the Pakistani minister had met with the former prime minister, who is unwell and currently at home, and exchanged pleasantries. Dr Zahid further explained that the purpose of the meeting was for Ishaq Dar to inquire about her health and wish her a speedy recovery. Ishaq Dar also conveyed good wishes to Khaleda Zia on behalf of Pakistan's President Asif Ali Zardari, Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Professor Zahid mentioned that the discussion covered various topics, including strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries and bolstering the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). However, no discussion was held on Bangladesh's domestic politics, he added.

--- ARTICLE 3 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/international/304132/Press-watchdog-demands-probe-into-Indonesian-journalist-murder
TITLE: Press watchdog demands probe into Indonesian journalist murder | International
DATE: 22 Aug 2025, 15:15

BANGKA, Indonesia, Aug 22, 2025 (BSS/AFP) - Indonesian police must reopen an investigation into the murder of a journalist this month, a media watchdog said Friday, saying new evidence suggested his reporting on tin mining had led to his killing.

Tin mining, both legal and illegal, has caused extensive environmental damage to the small island of Bangka in western Indonesia, where the metal has been widely extracted for use in global electronics.

The body of Aditya Warman, the 47-year-old executive director of local media website Okeyboz, was found in a well on his farm bearing signs of violence on August 8 after his family reported him missing.

"Emerging evidence suggests that Warman may have paid the ultimate price for investigating tin mining," Reporters Without Borders' Asia-Pacific bureau advocacy manager Aleksandra Bielakowska told AFP.

"It is crucial that the investigation thoroughly examines any links to his reporting on this critical issue and swiftly brings those responsible to justice."

Police last week said Aditya was killed by two men, both aged 34, who wanted to steal and sell his car to pay off online gambling debts. Both were arrested and could face the death penalty if found guilty.

But Aditya's colleagues said he told them his house was apparently being surveilled before his death, and that men claiming to be tin miners had turned up there unannounced.

"A week before he was murdered, he told me that six men came to his house. They told him they were tin miners, but they didn't look like miners, and didn't sound like locals," Dodi Hendriyanto, editor-in-chief of Aditya's site, told AFP.

"They told him they were unhappy with our reports on tin mining, but we don't know which report, because we report on tin mining almost every week," he said.

Police in Bangka Belitung Province did not immediately respond to an AFP comment request.

Indonesian journalists investigating cases of local corruption frequently face intimidation by authorities, according to Reporters Without Borders.

The press freedom watchdog ranked Indonesia 127th out of 180 countries in its 2025 press freedom index, a fall of 16 places from the year prior.

--- ARTICLE 4 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/others/304232/Feasibility-study-underway-to-resolve-Beeldakatia-waterlogging
TITLE: Feasibility study underway to resolve Beeldakatia waterlogging | Others
DATE: 22 Aug 2025, 19:58

KHULNA, Aug 22, 2025 (BSS) - Director General (DG) of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), Engineer Md. Enayet Ullah said that the government has initiated a feasibility study to resolve the long-standing waterlogging problem in Beeldakatia.

He made the remarks while visiting the Shailmari regulator in Dumuria today amid inclement weather.

The study covers river dredging of the Shailmari River in Dumuria, re-excavation of 24 canals, and the Bhobodoha waterlogging mitigation projects.

The aim is to develop an integrated water management plan to ensure effective drainage of the entire area. Once the study is completed and projects are implemented, a long-term solution to the waterlogging crisis will be achieved, he added.

Later, the BWDB DG visited the Kalighat regulator, Rangpur Union Parishad, waterlogged areas and the cutting point of Basin 91 of the Hamkura River (Sandhya Canal).

During the visit, he directed the Dumuria UNO to ensure proper water discharge by opening the Kalighat regulator, removing earlier obstacles through mutual understanding and taking steps for dismantling illegal dams on the Kalighat canal.

Meanwhile, local people demanded the revival of the dead Hamkura River and the implementation of TRM (Tidal River Management) projects in the surrounding lowlands.

Mohammad Saif Uddin, Supervising Engineer of Design Circle-2 of BWDB, Md. Aminul Islam, Chief Engineer of the South-Western Region in Khulna, BM Abdul Momin, Supervising Engineer of Jashore Water Development Circle, Ujjal Kumar Sen, Executive Engineer, Muhammad Al-Amin, UNO of Dumuria, among others, were present during the visit.

Villagers of Billdakatia have been struggling with waterlogging since 1988. Over the last two years, vast areas of Dumuria and Fulltala upazilas have been severely inundated. The Shailmari 10-vent regulator is the only drainage outlet for these areas.

However, heavy siltation has recently choked the Shailmari and Bhadra rivers, causing severe waterlogging every monsoon.

Currently, around 30,000 families in Dumuria are living in waterlogged conditions. With an allocation of Tk 14.5 million, dredging work is underway to remove silt from the Shailmari regulator to the Salta estuary.

Additionally, two pumps of 35-cusec are in operation during high tide and discharging water through sluice gates during low tide.

Another feasibility study is also ongoing for a Tk 500 million project that includes 15.5 km dredging of the Shailmari River, installation of five high-capacity pumps and re-excavation of 24 canals.

--- ARTICLE 5 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/international/304162/Climate-activists-block-financial-institutions-in-Oslo
TITLE: Climate activists block financial institutions in Oslo | International
DATE: 22 Aug 2025, 16:44

OSLO, Aug 22, 2025 (BSS/AFP) - Climate and pro-Palestinian activists, including Greta Thunberg, on Friday temporarily blocked access to Norway's central bank and occupied the headquarters of the country's largest bank in protest at their Israeli and fossil fuel investments.

The actions in Oslo were part of a civil disobedience campaign intended to last around 10 days, with the aim of influencing parliamentary elections scheduled for September 8.

Members of environmental group Extinction Rebellion and a pro-Palestinian group blocked access to the central bank, which also oversees country's massive sovereign wealth fund.

In a statement, they accused the central bank of keeping investments, through the sovereign fund, in companies "that support the illegal occupation and genocide in Palestine."

Another group of activists stormed and occupied the lobby of DNB bank, demanding that it stop funding the development of fossil fuels.

"DNB is the Nordic bank that invests the most money in oil and gas, nearly three times more than the runner-up," activist Lea Wiggen said in the statement.

"When we demand an exit from fossil fuels, this also applies to companies investing in the collapse of our society," she added.

Norway, western Europe's biggest oil and gas producer, is regularly criticised for its huge fossil fuel output, but its main political parties have no plans to end production.

By mid-morning, an Oslo police official told AFP that most of the activists had been removed.

As part of their campaign, Extinction Rebellion activists have already blocked Norway's largest oil refinery in Mongstad -- located on the country's west coast -- as well as Oslo's main avenue and a DNB branch.

--- ARTICLE 6 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/sports/303927/Sri-Lanka-name-16-man-squad-for-ODI-series-against-Zimbabwe
TITLE: Sri Lanka name 16-man squad for ODI series against Zimbabwe | Sports
DATE: 21 Aug 2025, 19:10

COLOMBO, Aug 21, 2025 (BSS/AFP) - Sri Lanka's cricket board named a 16-member squad led by Charith Asalanka on Thursday for a two-match series of one-day internationals against Zimbabwe in Harare.

The series begins on August 29, with the second match scheduled two days later, Sri Lanka Cricket said.

The ODIs will be followed by three T20 internationals, the squad for which is yet to be announced.

All five matches will be played in Harare.

Sri Lanka last toured Zimbabwe for a limited-overs series in November 2008.

After Zimbabwe, the Sri Lankan team will take part in the Asia Cup T20 cricket tournament hosted by the United Arab Emirates from September 9.

Charith Asalanka, (captain), Pathum Nissanka, Nishan Madushka, Kusal Mendis, Sadeera Samarawickrama, Nuwanidu Fernando, Kamindu Mendis, Janith Liyanage, Pavan Rathnayake, Dunith Wellalage, Milan Rathnayake, Maheesh Theekshana, Jeffrey Vandersay, Asitha Fernando, Dushmantha Chameera, Dilshan Madushanka.

--- ARTICLE 7 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/sports/304017/BCB-president-to-meet-HP-and-Women’s-players
TITLE: BCB president to meet HP and Women’s players | Sports
DATE: 21 Aug 2025, 23:04

DHAKA, Aug 21, 2025 (BSS) - Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) president Aminul Islam Bulbul will meet the High Performance (HP) and Women’s team players soon.

A few days ago, Aminul hosted a special value-sharing session titled ‘Share & Care’ at a local hotel with the Men’s national players.

In that meeting, the cricketers shared various issues and requested BCB president to take steps in this regard.

Aminul, also the former Bangladesh skipper and the country’s first Test centurion highlighted the importance of such meeting regularly, saying, “The session was an important step toward building a stronger, more unified environment for everyone involved in Bangladesh cricket.”

“Hearing directly from our players and team management was incredibly valuable, and we are committed to acting on the insights shared,” he added.

“Clear communication and meaningful connection are key to bridging gaps, strengthening trust and ensuring that we are all aligned in our goals. This session allowed us to listen to one another, understand different perspectives and commit to working together with purpose,” Aminul said.

“We believe that when we move forward as one team, we set the foundation for sustained success both on and off the field,” he said.

He is also keen to have such meeting with all stakeholders of cricket.

As part of that, Aminul will sit with the HP players in the next week. The Women’s team is now busy with a tri-nation tournament at BKSP for their preparation for the upcoming ICC Women’s World Cup. They will meet the  president after the tournament. BCB president will also sit with Under-19 team.

--- ARTICLE 8 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/business/304200/German-post-office-restricts-packages-to-US-over-Trump-tariffs
TITLE: German post office restricts packages to US over Trump tariffs | Business
DATE: 22 Aug 2025, 18:53

BERLIN, Aug 22, 2025 (BSS/AFP) - Germany's postal service announced Friday a raft of temporary restrictions on package deliveries to the United States due to tariffs imposed by President Donald Trump.

DHL, which owns the Deutsche Post service, said that from Saturday it would "temporarily suspend" its standard category of package delivery to the US, the preferred option for many small businesses.

"The reason for the restrictions, which we expect to be temporary, are new processes for postal delivery which have been put in place by the US authorities," DHL said in a statement.

"Important questions have not yet been answered, including who will have to pay the tariffs and how," it added.

Other European postal services, for example in Belgium, Austria and Denmark, have already taken similar measures.

DHL said a more expensive "express" service for packages weighing up to 70 kilograms will still be available.

Individual customers will also still be able to send items as presents with a maximum value of $100 (86 euros) but DHL warned that these would be subject to extra checks to prevent the service being used for commercial goods.

In late July the Trump administration said that as of August 29 it would abolish a tax exemption on small packages entering the US.

Such packages with a worth of less than 800 euros will now be taxed at 15 percent, the same rate as other imports from the European Union.

That general tariff rate was agreed under a deal struck between Brussels and Washington late last month.

In April DHL announced it was suspending delivery of packages to the United States with a value in excess of 800 euros.

--- ARTICLE 9 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/sports/304331/Trump-says-2026-World-Cup-draw-set-for-December-in-Washington
TITLE: Trump says 2026 World Cup draw set for December in Washington | Sports
DATE: 23 Aug 2025, 10:03

WASHINGTON, Aug 23, 2025 (BSS/AFP) - US President Donald Trump announced Friday that the draw for the 2026 World Cup will be held in Washington on December 5 -- and then jokingly asked if he could keep the golden trophy for himself.

The draw for the 48-team football championship will be held at the Kennedy Center in the US capital, where Trump recently installed himself as chairman in what he called a war on "woke" culture.

"It's the biggest, probably the biggest event in sports," Trump, flanked by FIFA chief Gianni Infantino, said as he made the announcement in the Oval Office of the White House.

The 2026 World Cup is being hosted by the United States, Canada and Mexico next year, and Trump has made a big deal about it happening during his presidency.

Infantino, who has fostered close ties with the billionaire US president, brought the World Cup with him for the announcement and even let Trump get his hands on it.

"Only the FIFA president, presidents of countries, and then those who win can touch it, because it's for winners only. And since you are a winner, of course you can as well touch it," Infantino said.

"Can I keep it?" replied Trump, who won a second term in the White House last year, as he lifted the trophy with both hands. "That's a beautiful piece of gold."

Trump appeared to be joking -- although the separate FIFA Club World Cup trophy remains in the Oval Office more than a month after English side Chelsea won it in New Jersey last month.

- Putin 'may be coming and he may not' -

There was a brief moment of nerves as Trump appeared to fumble the World Cup before placing it on his desk -- as Infantino reached out a hand to steady it.

Infantino later presented the US leader with a giant ticket -- Row 1 Seat 1 -- for the World Cup final on July 19 at the MetLife stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, just outside New York.

Trump also suggested that Russian President Vladimir Putin may attend the World Cup.

Holding up a photo that he said Putin had sent him after their summit in Alaska last week, Trump said the Kremlin chief "wants to be there very badly," but that he "may be coming and he may not" depending on the outcome of Ukraine peace efforts.

The United States was named as a joint host of the 2026 World Cup during Trump's first term as president in 2018. He lost the 2020 election to Joe Biden but won a second term last year.

Since his return to power, Trump has launched a major crackdown on immigration, but he said it would be "very easy" for most World Cup fans to get a visa.

For visitors from some countries, it would be "obviously a little bit more difficult," said Trump, who has banned all travelers from 12 nations including Afghanistan, Haiti and Iran.

The World Cup draw was reportedly due to be held in Las Vegas but the new venue has more political overtones.

Trump led a takeover of the Kennedy Center earlier this year, saying that the venerable performing arts venue named after late Democratic president John F. Kennedy had become too "woke."

He added on Friday as he made the announcement that "some people refer to it as the Trump-Kennedy Center, but we're not prepared to do that quite yet, maybe in a week or so."

Trump visited the Kennedy Center just before the Oval Office announcement on Friday. He has said he is going to make major improvements to "beautify" it, including adding marble cladding.

The US president also hailed a major federal crime crackdown in Washington that has seen US National Guard troops deployed on the streets of the capital.

Trump said the move would make Washington safe for football fans visiting the city during next year's tournament.

--- ARTICLE 10 ---
URL: https://bssnews.net/sports/303862/U-23-team-focus-on-correcting-mistakes
TITLE: U-23 team focus on correcting mistakes | Sports
DATE: 21 Aug 2025, 16:40

DHAKA, Aug 21, 2025 (BSS) - After a full day of rest, the Bangladesh U-23 national football team has completed its fifth training session in Bahrain ahead of their second friendly match against their Bahrain counterpart.

The coaching staff focused on correcting mistakes from the previous match. Despite the extremely hot weather, the players showed great determination and commitment, practicing intensively for nearly ninety minutes, according to a message received here from Bangladesh Football Federation today (Thursday).

The Bangladesh under-23 national football team will face Bahrain U-23 in the second friendly match scheduled to be held tomorrow (Friday) as part of their preparations for the upcoming AFC U-23 Asian Cup Qualifiers.

Bangladesh U-23 team’s goal keeper goalkeeper Mohammad Asif said “Alhamdulillah we had a great training session today…. our coach focused on the mistakes we made in the last match … despite a scorching hot weather, we kept our training on which I think is good for the team.”

Asif said they have got the opportunity to play practice match against the same level team in Bahrain they would play in the AFC Cup qualifiers in Vietnam.

Goal keeping coach Masud Ahmed Uzzal said work has been done on mistakes of the last match in the training session, in the training, the boys were explained what their mistakes were in the last match and the coach is very happy after the training session.

Earlier, on August 18 last, Bangladesh U-23 football team suffered a 1-0 defeat to Bahrain U-23 football team in the first close door friendly match.

