--- ARTICLE 1 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/bangladesh/government-affairs/398639/overseas-bound-citizens-asked-to-use-only-mygov
TITLE: Overseas-bound citizens asked to use only MyGov for apostille certificates
DATE: 2025-12-13T17:31:14+06:00

Bangladeshi citizens seeking employment or travel abroad have been asked to refrain from visiting suspicious links or websites or sharing personal information on any platform other than the official MyGov website https://www.mygov.bd/ for apostille certificates.

The Foreign Affairs Ministry is operating an online apostille service under the MyGov (https://www.mygov.bd) platform of the Aspire to Innovate (a2i) Programme of the Information and Communication Technology Division to make the legal migration process easier, faster, and more transparent for Bangladeshi citizens seeking employment or travel abroad, said a press release here on Saturday.

Through this service, overseas-bound Bangladeshi citizens can authenticate required public documents and various certificates online from their homes.

Launched under the initiative of the interim government, the service has significantly reduced time, cost, and effort. Over the past 11 months, nearly 17 lakh applications have been processed, marking an important milestone.

In order to shut down such fake domains and take legal action against the fraudulent syndicates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a letter to the Bangladesh Police in August. As a result, the fake domains https://apostile.mygov-bd.com/ and https://apostiller-bd.com/ have been taken down.

At the same time, necessary actions are underway to identify those involved, bring them under the law, and immediately shut down other fake domains.

Such fraudulent activities may jeopardize the acceptability of public documents issued by the Government of Bangladesh and pose serious risks to citizens' lawful migration processes.

Therefore, everyone is sincerely requested to exercise utmost caution and refrain from visiting suspicious links or websites or sharing personal information on any platform other than the official https://www.mygov.bd/

--- ARTICLE 2 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/bangladesh/court/398728/owner-of-motorbike-used-in-hadi-shooting-remanded
TITLE: Owner of motorbike used in Hadi shooting remanded
DATE: 2025-12-14T19:45:11+06:00

A court here on Sunday placed Md Abdul Hannan, owner of the motorbike used by assailants in the shooting of Inqilab Moncho spokesperson Sharif Osman Hadi, on a three-day remand.

Dhaka Metropolitan Magistrate Didarul Alam passed the order after police produced Hannan, before the court and requested to place him on a seven-day remand based on a general diary (GD) filed in connection with the incident.

Md Abdul Hannan was arrested in the city’s Mohammadpur area on Saturday.

Sharif Osman Hadi, an independent parliament candidate for Dhaka-8 and spokesperson of Inqilab Moncho, was shot on Friday in the capital’s Bijoynagar Box Culvert area. Two assailants who were riding the motorbike opened fire on Hadi, who was travelling on a battery-run rickshaw, and fled the scene.

Hadi is currently undergoing treatment at Evercare Hospital in Dhaka.

--- ARTICLE 3 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/bangladesh/398017/zubaida-rahman-reaches-dhaka
TITLE: Zubaida Rahman reaches Evercare Hospital
DATE: 2025-12-05T11:20:03+06:00

Zubaida Rahman, wife of BNP acting chairman Tarique Rahman, reached the capital's Evercare Hospital on Friday.

She took the hospital's emergency lift to where Khaleda Zia is undergoing treatment.

At that time, BNP Standing Committee member Selima Rahman, General Secretary of the Mahila Dal Sultan Ahmed and leaders at various levels were present.

She left London Heathrow Airport at 6:53pm (London time) on Thursday on a Biman Bangladesh Airlines flight and landed at Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport at 10:45am (Bangladesh time) on Friday and left through the VIP gate, said BNP Media Cell member Atiqur Rahman Rumon.

Although Zubaida was scheduled to accompany Khaleda Zia back to London on Friday on a special air ambulance provide by the Emir of Qatar, the plan has been delayed.

The Qatar royal air ambulance is now unlikely to reach Dhaka before Saturday due to technical issues.

As a result, Khaleda Zia is not expected to travel to London before Sunday, BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir told UNB.

“Because of a technical fault, the air ambulance is not arriving today. If everything goes well, it may arrive on Saturday. If Madam’s condition allows and the medical board agrees, she will fly on December 7 (Sunday), Insha’Allah,” Fakhrul said.

Dr Zubaida, a member of the medical board overseeing Khaleda’s treatment, has been monitoring her condition closely from London through virtual consultations. Her daughter, Barrister Zaima Rahman, saw her off at Heathrow on Thursday.

Zubaida Rahman left Evercare Hospital after spending about two hours by Chairperson Khaleda Zia’s side.

She headed to her mother’s residence in Dhanmondi at 2:20pm on Friday.

Khaleda Zia remains under close observation in the Critical Care Unit with complications involving her liver, kidneys and heart.

BNP sources say all arrangements have been completed for Khaleda’s treatment at London Bridge Hospital once she is flown out.

This will be her second medical evacuation on a Qatar royal air ambulance. Earlier, on January 8, she travelled to London for treatment and returned home on May 6. Zubaida stayed with her throughout that period, ending her 17-year stay in London, before returning there again on June 5.

Tarique Rahman, Dr Zubaida and their daughter Zaima have been living in London since 2008.

--- ARTICLE 4 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/world/asia/397761/hong-kong-arrests-suspects-as-fire-toll-hits-151
TITLE: Hong Kong arrests suspects as fire toll hits 151
DATE: 2025-12-01T17:41:32+06:00

Authorities said Monday they have made a total 13 arrests over Hong Kong’s deadliest fire in decades after the blaze killed 151 people last week, a toll that could further rise.

The arrests were made on suspicion of manslaughter as investigators work to piece together what led to the catastrophic fire taking hold so fast in a complex of high-rise apartments.

Officials have been looking at factors, including the styrofoam panels and bamboo scaffolding use in a renovation project at the site.

Officials also announced Monday that some of the exterior netting used on scaffolding at the housing estate did not meet fire-resistance standards.

Police representative Tsang Shuk-yin on Monday told a news conference that as of 4PM (0800 GMT) the fire killed 151 people, up from Sunday’s toll of 146.

“We cannot rule out the possibility of this number increasing further,” Tsang said.

The blaze that engulfed Wang Fuk Court in Hong Kong’s northern Tai Po district was the world’s deadliest residential building fire since 1980.

Police have completed searches in five of the estate’s eight high-rise blocks.

Tsang said that “some remains have already been reduced to ashes” and that it was possible that some of the people reported missing will not be recovered.

Police found the remains have been found inside apartment units, in hallways, and on staircases, and will continue to search the buildings, he said.

Thirteen people have been arrested for manslaughter in relation to the blaze, Chan Tung, director of crime and security of the Hong Kong Police Force, told another news conference.

The group included 12 men and one women aged between 40 and 77.

Local media have reported that police have separately arrested three people for sedition, including 24-year-old student Miles Kwan, who had handed out flyers demanding government accountability over the fire.

“Therefore, we must take appropriate measures, including law enforcement measures. Operational details cannot be disclosed as they involve national security,” Tang said.

Kwan was seen leaving a police station on Monday afternoon, without commenting on his case or confirming if he had been formally arrested.

Officials also announced that some of the exterior netting used on scaffolding at the housing estate did not meet fire-resistance standards.

Seven of the 20 samples collected at various locations in four buildings of Wang Fuk Court did not meet fire-resistance test standards, said chief secretary Eric Chan.

The city has seen an outpouring of grief in recent days.

Thousands have laid flowers and paid their respects over a three-day mourning period, with some of the notes left at the site calling for accountability.

--- ARTICLE 5 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/showtime/399086/netflix-eyes-warner-bros-to-strengthen-tv-style
TITLE: Netflix eyes Warner Bros to strengthen TV-style content
DATE: 2025-12-19T13:25:41+06:00

Netflix plans to acquire Warner Bros not to end traditional TV, but to adopt its proven practices and library of popular shows, industry experts say.

By excluding Discovery’s cable channels, Netflix signals it wants to avoid traditional broadcast infrastructure, reflecting the shift from linear TV to streaming.

The deal, including HBO, would give Netflix access to hit series like Friends, similar to Amazon’s 2022 MGM acquisition, and could allow content bundling like traditional cable packages.

Netflix has already embraced TV-style strategies, including live events, sports, an ad-supported tier, and local content.

If successful, the Warner Bros acquisition would accelerate Netflix’s use of conventional TV approaches while keeping streaming at its core, blending innovation with the legacy of network and cable storytelling.

--- ARTICLE 6 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/bangladesh/nation/397945/youth-killed-after-being-hit-by-train-in-khulna
TITLE: Youth killed after being hit by train in Khulna
DATE: 2025-12-03T23:31:09+06:00

A young man was killed on early Wednesday after being run over by a train in the Daulatpur rail gate area of Khulna city.

Police said the victim, identified as Touhidur Rahman, 25, was crossing the railway line when a Khulna-bound passenger train from Chilahati hit him, killing him on the spot.

Azad Rahman, in-charge of the Daulatpur Railway Outpost, said police recovered the body and sent it to the morgue of Khulna Medical College Hospital (KMCH).

Efforts are underway to trace his address and other family details, he added.

--- ARTICLE 7 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/bangladesh/398510/ducsu-leader-harrasses-pro-awami-league-professor
TITLE: Ducsu leader harasses pro-Awami League professor on campus, video goes viral
DATE: 2025-12-11T19:52:14+06:00

AB Zubair, Social Welfare secretary of the Dhaka University Central Students’ Union (Ducsu), allegedly harassed Professor AKM Jamal of Dhaka University’s Sociology Department, a known supporter of the pro-Awami League Neel Dal (Blue Party), at the Social Sciences Faculty building on Thursday around 2pm.

Professor Zeenat Huda, also from the Sociology Department, was present during the incident.

Video footage of the confrontation went viral on social media, sparking widespread discussion and criticism across the campus.

Speaking with Dhaka Tribune, Prof Jamal described the episode as "unprecedented," adding, “We've been to the Social Sciences Faculty many times before without any issues. Why did this happen today?”

Commenting on the incident, AB Zubair claimed: “Five fascist collaborator teachers, including Awami League cronies AKM Jamal and Zeenat Huda were attending a secret meeting on campus today. We got wind of it and tried to apprehend them, but unfortunately, they managed to escape.”

The viral video showed Zubair attempting to detain Prof Jamal on the stairs of the Social Sciences Faculty with the intent of handing him over to police. When the professor tried to flee, Zubair grabbed his hoodie, which came off, but Jamal managed to reach a car and leave the campus despite Zubair attempting to hold the car door.

--- ARTICLE 8 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/bangladesh/politics/398631/govt-assures-full-security-for-tarique-rahman
TITLE: Govt assures full security for Tarique Rahman ahead of homecoming
DATE: 2025-12-13T17:02:40+06:00

Home Adviser Lieutenant General (Retd) Md Jahangir Alam Chowdhury on Saturday assured that the government will take all necessary measures to ensure the security of Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) Acting Chairman Tarique Rahman upon his return to the country.

"There is no apprehension regarding his security. We will arrange every possible measure to ensure his safety," he said.

He made the remarks while responding to journalists' questions after a Core Committee meeting on law and order at the Home Ministry in the Bangladesh Secretariat.

--- ARTICLE 9 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/sport/football/398273/salah-dropped-by-liverpool-for-inter-milan-clash
TITLE: Salah dropped by Liverpool for Inter Milan clash after outburst
DATE: 2025-12-08T22:54:38+06:00

Mohamed Salah has been dropped from Liverpool's squad for their Champions League tie at Inter Milan after the Egypt star's extraordinary criticism of his treatment by boss Arne Slot.

Salah was not included in the squad announced by Liverpool on Monday despite being seen smiling when he trained with the first team earlier in the day.

Salah said on Saturday he felt like he had been "thrown under the bus" by Liverpool and that he no longer had a relationship with Slot after he was left on the bench for the third consecutive game in a 3-3 draw against Leeds.

In the midst of a dismal season by his high standards, the 33-year-old was not even used as a substitute at Elland Road.

"I said many times before that I had a good relationship with the manager, and all of a sudden we don't have any relationship," Salah told reporters at the weekend in response to being left on the bench again.

"I don't know why but it seems to me, how I see it, that someone doesn't want me in the club.

"It seems like the club has thrown me under the bus. That is how I am feeling. I think it is very clear that someone wanted me to get all of the blame."

It was reported that Salah's removal from the squad for the trip to Italy was taken with the full support of Slot, but it is believed no formal disciplinary action has been taken against him by the club.

Salah's incendiary blast has sparked speculation that Liverpool will consider selling him in the January transfer window.

The forward has repeatedly been linked with a move to the Saudi Pro League over the last two years.

After next weekend's home match against Brighton in the Premier League, Salah is set to depart for the Africa Cup of Nations.

Salah, who signed from Roma in 2017, is Liverpool's third-highest goalscorer of all time with 250 goals in 420 appearances for the club.

He is the club's highest-paid player in history, having signed a new contract in April, and played a key role in Liverpool's two Premier League titles and one Champions League triumph during his iconic spell on Merseyside.

But Salah has been a shadow of his former self during Liverpool's struggles this season -- the Premier League champions are now ninth in the table -- with just four goals in 13 top-flight appearances.

He was dropped from the starting line-up for Champions League games against Galatasaray and Eintracht Frankfurt earlier this season in the first indication that Slot was growing frustrated with his poor form and lack of defensive effort.

Salah's last Liverpool start was in a 4-1 defeat by PSV Eindhoven on November 26, while he is without a goal since netting against Aston Villa at the start of November.

His astonishing outburst risked undermining Slot's authority at a time when he is trying to drag the team out of a slump which has seen them win just four of the last 15 matches.

Salah's absence also adds to Slot's problems on the pitch as Cody Gakpo, Federico Chiesa and Wataru Endo have also not travelled due to fitness issues.

As a result, Slot was only able to take a reduced 19-man squad on the flight to Milan.

Slot and Reds goalkeeper Alisson Becker are due to attend a press conference at the San Siro ahead of Tuesday's showdown with Inter.

--- ARTICLE 10 ---
URL: https://www.dhakatribune.com/sport/football/398836/man-utd-blow-lead-three-times-in-4-4-bournemouth
TITLE: Man Utd blow lead three times in 4-4 Bournemouth thriller
DATE: 2025-12-16T11:47:03+06:00

Manchester United blew the lead three times to miss out on moving up to fifth in the Premier League as Bournemouth would not be beaten in a thrilling 4-4 draw at Old Trafford.

United have lost just once in their last 10 games but Ruben Amorim will be frustrated as more points at home were frittered away despite arguably the best attacking display of his reign in charge.

Amad Diallo and Casemiro gave the hosts a half-time lead either side of Antoine Semenyo's equaliser.

Two Bournemouth goals from Evanilson and Marcus Tavernier in seven minutes at the start of the second period turned the game around.

The Red Devils roared back through a brilliant Bruno Fernandes free-kick and Matheus Cunha's second goal for the club.

However, after failing to beat 10-man Everton and struggling West Ham at home in recent weeks, United let another two points slip away.

Eli Junior Kroupi's fine finish secured a point for Bournemouth, who should have even snatched victory in stoppage time as David Brooks was twice denied by Senne Lammens.

"It was a fun game for everyone at home," said Amorim.

"When you win away you should win at home. The performance today was different from the last two at home.

"The result is the same, it is frustrating but the performance is different."

Bournemouth's winless run stretches to seven games but a point edges them up to 13th.

United move ahead of Liverpool on goal difference into sixth.

Despite the disappointment, Amorim will be heartened by the sight of his expensively assembled forward line beginning to come good.

The home side's bright start was rewarded on 13 minutes when Diallo nodded into an empty net after Petrovic could only get a hand to Cunha's header.

Going forward United looked as good as they have all season.

But at the back they badly missed the presence and experience of the injured Harry Maguire and Matthijs de Ligt.

Bournemouth levelled against the run of play on 40 minutes.

Luke Shaw was easily barged off the ball, allowing Semenyo to gallop into the box and fire low and hard across Lammens for his first goal since October 3.

United restored their lead in five minutes of added time at the end of the first half, thanks in large part to Petrovic.

Casemiro headed Fernandes' corner goalwards, but the former Chelsea goalkeeper should have easily collected the Brazilian's header.

But all the Red Devils good first half work was undone within seven minutes of the second.

Evanilson pounced on Tavernier's pass to slot into the far corner just 37 seconds after the restart for his first goal since August.

Tavernier then drilled a free-kick from the edge of the area past the despairing dive of Lammens.

Once United restored their composure, chances began to flow again for Amorim's men.

Mbeumo blasted over from point-blank range before Petrovic unconvincingly parried away Cunha's powerful effort.

Not since May 1984 have United lost a home league game that they were leading at half-time.

They at least continued that run as Fernandes' brilliant free-kick found the top corner before Cunha swept home when Adam Smith failed to clear Benjamin Sesko's cross.

Amorim looked exasperated on the touchline even as his side led 4-3.

The Portuguese's mood was soured even more six minutes from time when Eli Junior Kroupi swept in.

And only two great saves from Lammens deep into stoppage time prevented David Brooks from snatching Bournemouth victory on a madcap Monday in Manchester.

"It's very difficult to explain because so much happened," said Bournemouth boss Andoni Iraola.

"I suppose it was entertaining for everyone. Two teams that attacked much better than we defended."

