--- ARTICLE 1 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/country/281115/woman-killed-in-dhaka-road-accident
TITLE: Woman killed in Dhaka road accident
DATE: 2025-12-26

A 55-year-old woman was killed when a bus ran over her in the Shahjahanpur area of the capital on Monday night.

The deceased was identified as Sathia Begum, 55, wife of Hazrat Ali of Shahjahanpur Railway Water Tank colony.

Quoting witnesses, SM Rashedul Islam, sub-inspector of Shahjahanpur Police Station, said the accident occurred around 10:00pm near Shahjahanpur level crossing when a staff bus of Aman Graphics & Design Company hit the woman while crossing the road, leaving her injured.

Later, she was taken to Dhaka Medical College and Hospital where the doctors declared her dead.

Police arrested the bus driver and seized the bus.

--- ARTICLE 2 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/middle-east/279631/israel-hamas-accuse-each-other-of-breaching-gaza-truce
TITLE: Israel, Hamas accuse each other of breaching Gaza truce
DATE: 2025-12-26

Gaza’s nine-day-old ceasefire came under strain Sunday after the Israeli army said it launched air strikes in response to attacks it claimed were carried out by Hamas militants against its forces.

Hamas, however, maintained it was adhering to the truce, with one official accusing Israel of devising ‘pretexts’ to resume its own attacks.

Later on Sunday, the military said in an online briefing that it launched strikes after attacks in Rafah, southern Gaza, and in the northern town of Beit Lahia, warning ‘there is a possibility of more strikes’.

Gaza’s civil defence agency, which operates under Hamas authority, said at least 13 people had been killed across the territory. The Israeli military said it was looking into the reports of casualties.

Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu earlier instructed security forces to take ‘strong action against terrorist targets in the Gaza Strip’, his office said in a statement, accusing Hamas of ‘a ceasefire violation’.

Defence minister Israel Katz then warned that the group would ‘pay a heavy price for every shot and every breach of the ceasefire’, adding Israel’s response would ‘become increasingly severe’.

The uneasy truce in the Palestinian territory, brokered by US president Donald Trump and taking effect on 10 October, brought to a halt more than two years of devastating war between Israel and Hamas.

The deal established the outline for hostage and prisoner exchanges, and was proposed alongside an ambitious roadmap for Gaza’s future but has immediately faced challenges in implementation.

‘Earlier today, terrorists fired anti-tank missiles and opened fire on IDF army forces,’ in Rafah, the military said in a statement.

‘The IDF responded with air strikes by fighter jets and artillery fire, targeting the Rafah area,’ the statement said.

Palestinian witnesses said clashes erupted in the southern city of Rafah in an area still held by Israel.

One witness, a 38-year-old man who asked not to be identified by name, said that Hamas had been fighting a local Palestinian gang known as Abu Shabab but the militants were ‘surprised by the presence of army tanks’.

‘The air force conducted two strikes from the air,’ he said.

National security minister and right-wing firebrand Itamar Ben Gvir urged the army to ‘fully resume fighting in the Strip with all force’.

A statement from Izzat Al-Rishq, a member of Hamas’s political bureau, reaffirmed the group’s commitment to the ceasefire and said Israel ‘continues to breach the agreement and fabricate flimsy pretexts to justify its crimes’.

Hamas’s armed wing insisted on Sunday that the group was adhering to the ceasefire agreement with Israel and had ‘no knowledge’ of any clashes in Rafah.

Under Trump’s 20-point plan, Israeli forces have withdrawn beyond the so-called Yellow Line, leaving them in control of around half of Gaza, including the territory’s borders but not its main cities.

Hamas in turn has released 20 surviving hostages and is in the process of returning the remaining bodies of those who have died.

The war, triggered by Hamas’s October 7, 2023 attack on Israel, has killed at least 68,159 people in Gaza, according to the health ministry in the Hamas-run territory, figures the United Nations considers credible.

The data does not distinguish between civilians and combatants but indicates that more than half of the dead are women and children.

Hamas’s 2023 attack on Israel resulted in the deaths of 1,221 people, mostly civilians, according to an AFP tally based on official Israeli figures.

On Sunday, Israel identified the latest two bodies returned overnight as Ronen Engel and Thai farmworker Sonthaya Oakkharasri.

Engel, a resident of Nir Oz kibbutz, was abducted from his home aged 54 and killed during the October 7 attacks, with his body taken to Gaza.

He was a photojournalist and volunteer ambulance driver for Magen David Adom, the Israeli equivalent of the Red Cross in the southern Negev region.

A farmworker at the Beeri kibbutz, Oakkharasri was also killed in the attack on Israel. He had a seven-year-old daughter.

Israel returned the bodies of 15 Palestinians to Gaza on Sunday, bringing the total number handed over to 150, the health ministry in the Hamas-run territory said.

The issue of hostage bodies still in Gaza has become a sticking point in the ceasefire implementation, with Israel linking the reopening of the main gateway into the territory to the recovery of all of the deceased.

Relief agencies have called for the Rafah crossing from Egypt to be reopened to speed the flow of food, fuel and medicines.

Hamas has so far resisted disarming and, since the pause in fighting, has moved to reassert its control over Gaza.

The group has said it needs time and technical assistance to recover the remaining bodies from under Gaza’s rubble.

Netanyahu’s office said reopening Rafah would ‘be considered based on how Hamas fulfils its part in returning the hostages and the bodies of the deceased, and in implementing the agreed-upon framework,’ it said.

Hamas warned late Saturday that the closure of the crossing would cause ‘significant delays in the retrieval and transfer of remains’.

--- ARTICLE 3 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/europe/280076/pope-leo-offers-olive-branch-in-allowing-traditional-mass
TITLE: Pope Leo offers olive branch in allowing traditional mass
DATE: 2025-12-26

Pope Leo XIV has authorised a traditional mass to take place this weekend at the Vatican, lifting restrictions that angered conservatives in his latest attempt to heal splits within the Catholic Church.

The Tridentine or so-called Latin mass was commonly used across the Church before it was modernised in the 1960s, and was further limited by Pope Francis in 2021.

With Leo’s approval, it will be celebrated in St Peter’s Basilica at the Vatican on Saturday afternoon by ultraconservative US cardinal Raymond Burke, a fierce opponent of the late pontiff.

Conducted in Latin by a priest who keeps his back to the congregation, in a ceremony marked by the use of incense and Gregorian chants, the mass is preferred by many traditionalist Catholics.

Francis feared, however, that its use could undermine the legacy of the Second Vatican Council (1962-65), a series of reforms that sought to bring the Catholic Church into the modern era.

His papal decree restricting the use of the mass, ‘Traditionis Custodes’, sparked anger among Catholic conservatives who felt they were being side-lined.

Pope Leo’s move to allow the mass in the Vatican sends a ‘very strong signal to the conservative fringe’, said Francois Mabille, head of France’s Geopolitical Observatory of Religion.

The action of Leo suggests that ‘maybe the tensions within the church are stronger than we imagined a few months ago,’ he said.

Elected on May 8 following the death of Francis, Pope Leo faced a delicate mission bringing together a church of 1.4 billion followers deeply divided over social issues, from the role of women to the openness of the Church towards divorcees, gay faithful and migrants.

In his 12 years as pontiff, Francis often irritated conservatives with his decisions, especially in the United States. Burke, who will lead Saturday’s mass, was one of the Argentine pope’s strongest critics.

Leo has pursued many of the policies favoured by his predecessor, highlighting the need to help the poor and marginalised and to protect the environment.

When the Vatican welcomed an LGBTQ+ pilgrimage as part of the church’s Jubilee year in September, critics renewed their attacks on the Holy See’s ‘ideological drift’.

But Leo has also given ground to conservatives.

He named Guinean Cardinal Robert Sarah, who considers immigration a threat to Europe’s Christian identity, as a special envoy to a pilgrimage in France.

And the return of the Tridentine mass to the Vatican is also ‘a gesture of appeasement,’ said Martin Dumont, a historian and secretary general of the Research Institute for the Study of Religions.

It signals that ‘everyone is a part of the Church — all sides must be accepted and received’, he said.

Leo ‘would like to meet Catholic groups who want this form of rite’ to understand their motives, said Dumont, adding: ‘He is a man of peace, attentive to others.’

Leo appears to be sending the message that the traditional mass has a place, as long as it does not threaten the legacy of the Vatican II reforms.

But the line between liturgy and politics is fraught.

In an interview published in September, Leo acknowledged that the debate over the mass was ‘very complicated’ and had become part of the ‘polarisation’ within the Church.

‘Some have used the liturgy as a pretext to advance other subjects. It has become a political tool and that is very regrettable,’ he said.

--- ARTICLE 4 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/foreign-affairs/282471/russian-navy-ship-arrives-in-ctg-on-5-day-visit
TITLE: Russian Navy ship arrives in Ctg on 5-day visit
DATE: 2025-12-26

Russian Navy ship, Gremyaschy, arrived at Chittagong Port on Monday on a five-day goodwill visit to Bangladesh.

On its arrival at Chattogram Port, the chief staff officer on behalf of commander Chattogram naval region welcomed the ship’s officers and sailors while a well-equipped Bangladesh Navy band performed activities according to its traditional manner, said an Inter-Services Public Relations Directorate press release.

Besides, the Russian Military Attaché in Bangladesh and local high-ranking navy officials were present to welcome the ship.

Earlier, when the visiting ship reached Bangladeshi waters, BNS Umar Farooq, a salisbury-class frigate of the Bangladesh Navy, welcomed it.

The ISPR said that during their stay in Bangladesh, a delegation, including the captain of the visiting ship and the Russian Military Attaché in Bangladesh, will pay courtesy calls on commander Chattogram naval area, commander BN Fleet, area superintendent dockyard and chairman of Chittagong Port Authority.

The visiting ship’s officers and sailors will lay a wreath at Redkin Memorial Point at the Bangladesh Naval Academy and visit the naval ship, its base, BN Ashar Alo School for children with disabilities, and various scenic and historical sites.

Simultaneously, members of the Bangladesh Navy will also visit the Russian ship.

During this visit, the members of the navies of the two countries will get an opportunity to exchange professional knowledge, experience and skills by directly observing mutual activities and professional excellence, the ISPR added.

The Russian ship will leave Bangladesh on November 21, after its goodwill visit to Bangladesh.

--- ARTICLE 5 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/trade-commerce/280840/latam-weathered-trump-tariffs-better-than-feared
TITLE: LatAm weathered Trump tariffs better than feared
DATE: 2025-12-26

The impact of tariffs imposed by US president Donald Trump ‘has been less than expected’ in Latin America, the head of the region’s development bank told AFP in an interview.

Dozens of economies worldwide were hit by US customs duties as part of Trump’s push for reciprocal tariffs against what he considers unfair trade practices.

Some economists have warned the measures could slow global trade due to the increased export costs to the world’s largest economy.

But ‘when you look at the year from January to date, the impact has been less than expected,’ said Sergio Diaz-Granados, president of the Development Bank of Latin America and the Caribbean (CAF), in an interview on Friday.

‘Obviously, it caused a lot of turbulence at the beginning, but the outlook is becoming increasingly clearer.’

He attributed the lower-than-anticipated impact to ‘well-established trade networks’ between the United States and Latin America, which he said helped the region adapt quickly to the new tariffs.

‘Latin America has certain comparative advantages over the American market: its proximity and a series of deep ties ranging from the presence of Hispanics and Latinos within the United States to the connection of American companies as investors’ in the region, Diaz-Granados said.

Several Latin American countries also negotiated directly with Washington after the tariff hikes, helping to soften the blow, he added.

‘The outlook is clearer now with these new trade arrangements where there will certainly be some tariffs, but at the same time, there will be some compensation in the (supply) chains, and this will allow for a readjustment,’ he said.

Latin America and the Caribbean is expected to grow at an average of ‘around 3.2 percent’ in 2026, 0.3 percentage points below the global economic growth rate, according to Diaz-Granados.

‘Mexico will once again recover its investment and export pace, which is good news because, at the end of the day, Mexico connects and pulls a large part of the trade networks of Central America and northern South America,’ he said.

However, he lamented that low investment flows, weak productivity and insecurity have kept Latin America’s growth below the global average for the past decade.

‘The region needs to grow above four percent to begin to structurally close the gaps in poverty and inequality,’ he warned.

--- ARTICLE 6 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/cricket/281573/paran-amite-miss-tons
TITLE: Paran, Amite miss tons
DATE: 2025-12-26

Paran missed a ton but ensured Chattogram finished in a commanding position against Khulna on the opening day of their National Cricket League third-round match at the Bir Shreshtha Shaheed Flight Lieutenant Matiur Rahman Cricket Stadium in Chattogram on Saturday.

Chattogram reached 340-8 in 84.4 overs after being put to bat first, following half-centuries from Paran (91), Irfan Shukkur (62), and Sazzadul Hoque (56).

All-rounder Paran, who fell nine runs short of his hundred, smashed 10 fours and four sixes and shared a 94-run partnership with Sazzadul to lift Chattogram from 99-4.

Nayeem Hasan also contributed 45 runs, while Ashraful Hasan was batting on eight with Mahedi Hasan (one) at stumps.

Khulna’s Sofor Ali took 4-51, while Mehedi Hasan Rana picked up 2-79.

Amite Hasan’s fighting 91 was not enough to save Sylhet’s innings, as they were struggling at 172-7 against Rangpur at the Cox’s Bazar International Stadium.

Sylhet’s innings crumbled early, when they lost their first four wickets for 37-4. Amite kept scoring from the other side and provided brief resistance by forming a 70-run stand with Ashraful Hasan (27).

However, Amite missed out on his ton by nine runs before finally being dismissed by Abu Hasim (1-29).

Rejaur Raja was unbeaten on 28 with Naim Hossain (two) at the end of the day’s play.

Abdullah Al Mamun was the pick of the Rangpur bowlers with 3-55, while Robiul Hoque took 2-21.

Naim Sheikh continued his fine form, scoring an unbeaten 55 to help Mymensingh post 100-2 against Dhaka on a rain-curtailed opening day at the Cox’s Bazar Academy Ground.

Naim was well accompanied by the last-match centurion, Abdul Mazid (23), before he had to leave the ground, being retired hurt.

Anamul Haque and Salahuddin Shakil took one wicket apiece for Dhaka.

Salman Hossain Emon scored a fifty as Barishal managed 212 in their first innings against Rajshahi at the Khulna Divisional Stadium.

Rajshahi reached 6-0 at stumps with Mizanur Rahman (three) and skipper Sabbir Hosan (three) on strike.

After being put into bat, Barishal made a strong start with their openers Iftekhar Hossain Ifti and Zahiduzzaman Khan adding 62 runs for the opening stand.

Ifti scored 40, while Zahiduzzaman made 29. However, the lower order failed to carry on the momentum and eventually reached the 200-mark after a cautious 58 by Salman.

Shafiqul Islam, Ali Mohammad Walid, Rahim Ahmed, Nihaduzzaman and Sunzamul Islam all picked two wickets apiece for Rajshahi.

--- ARTICLE 7 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/editorial/278966/heavy-handed-response-to-legitimate-demands-deplorable
TITLE: Heavy-handed response to legitimate demands deplorable
DATE: 2025-12-26

POLICE high-handedness towards protesting teachers of secondary schools under the government’s monthly pay order scheme on October 12 in Dhaka is deplorable. This is especially so as the demands are legitimate. The use of force against the teachers who gathered peacefully to press for overdue pay adjustment reflects both an absence of empathy and a worrying tendency to respond to legitimate grievances with coercion rather than dialogues. Hundreds of teachers began their sit-in in front of the National Press Club, demanding 20 per cent of their basic pay in house rent allowance, Tk 1,500 in medical allowance and an increase in the festival allowance from 50 per cent to 75 per cent of their basic pay. While none from the authorities met them, the police used water cannons, sound grenades and batons to disperse them. Several teachers were injured, three to four were detained and traffic in the surrounding areas had been disrupted for hours. The teachers later regrouped at the Central Shaheed Minar, vowing to continue with their protest until their demands were met. Hundreds of teachers demonstrated again on October 13 at the Shaheed Minar.

The teachers’ grievances are not new. Teachers under the MPO scheme have for years demonstrated for fair pay and allowances, but the government’s response has been limited to piecemeal, inadequate increases. In May, the festival allowance for teachers was increased from 25 per cent to 50 per cent while on September 30, the Finance Division increased the house rent from Tk 1,000 to Tk 1,500. Teachers have rejected such token adjustments, arguing that they fail to match the rising cost of living. Their demand for a 20 per cent house rent allowance is not only reasonable but long overdue, especially considering that government schoolteachers now receive 40–45 per cent of their basic salary in house rent, along with Tk 1,500 in medical allowance and 100 per cent in festival allowance. The disparity between MPO teachers and their government counterparts is glaring. Entry-level teachers at non-government secondary schools receive roughly half the gross pay of government teachers, with meagre allowances that have not kept pace with inflation. Meanwhile, delays in the disbursement of retirement benefits compound the hardship of teachers under the MPO scheme as they need to wait for five to six years to receive their dues, despite a court order directing the government to clear retirement benefits in six months of retirement.

Non-government secondary schools educate the majority of secondary students. If the teachers continue to be neglected, the entire education system suffers. The government must, therefore, immediately engage in meaningful negotiations to address the teachers’ demands and ensure that retired teachers receive their rightful benefits without delay.

--- ARTICLE 8 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/country/279934/azmi-hails-jailing-of-15-army-officers-as-historic-day
TITLE: Azmi hails jailing of 15 army officers as historic day
DATE: 2025-12-26

Former brigadier general Abdullahil Amaan Azmi on Wednesday described October 22, 2025, as a historic day in global judicial and political history, saying Bangladesh had set a new precedent by proving that no one is above the law.

In a Facebook post, Azmi praised the International Crimes Tribunal-1 (ICT-1) for sending 15 serving army officers to jail in three cases of crimes against humanity—two related to enforced disappearances during the former Awami League regime and another involving the July 2024 uprising.

Azmi, himself a victim of enforced disappearance during the Awami League government, said the move demonstrated that ‘power and weapons cannot shield anyone from justice indefinitely.’

‘For the first time in global history, a group of military officers—including 15 currently serving members of the armed forces—have been indicted and brought before a civilian court on charges of crimes against humanity,’ he stated.

He termed the tribunal’s action a bold step toward ending the culture of impunity that has long undermined justice systems, adding that more accused individuals are expected to face trial in the coming days.

Azmi, son of the late Ghulam Azam, former chief of Jamaat-e-Islami who was convicted by the International Crimes Tribunal for his role in the 1971 Liberation War, also stressed the importance of fair trials, saying that while all criminals must face justice, “no one should fall victim to injustice in the process.”

He expressed appreciation for Chief Adviser Muhammad Yunus, the judges of the tribunal, Prosecutor Advocate Tajul Islam and his team, as well as Chief of Army Staff General Waker-Uz-Zaman for their cooperation in ensuring the tribunal’s independent and lawful functioning.

Azmi was abducted on August 22, 2016, by around 30 plainclothes men identifying themselves as members of the Detective Branch of police, according to his family. His whereabouts remained unknown until the fall of the Sheikh Hasina-led Awami League government on August 5, 2024, amid a mass student-led uprising.

He was released the following day, on August 6, from a secret detention centre widely known as Aynaghar.

--- ARTICLE 9 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/country/284220/ashulia-police-arrest-four-seize-foreign-pistol-after-gunfight
TITLE: Ashulia police arrest four, seize foreign pistol after gunfight
DATE: 2025-12-26

The police in Dhaka’s Ashulia area arrested four men early Thursday and recovered a foreign-made pistol following a shooting the previous night that allegedly stemmed from a turf dispute, officials said.

A team from Dhaka District North Detective Branch arrested the suspects at about 4:30am on Thursday during raids at the Baipail and Kaichabari areas, hours after gunfight was reported in nearby Palashbari at about 9:30pm on Wednesday.

The detainees were identified as Abdul Mannan Patwary, 24, of Chandpur, Monowar Hossain Titu, 28, of Manikganj, Al Amin Swapon, 30, and Julhas Mia, 30, of Palashbari area in Ashulia.

DB officials said that the gunfight erupted over local dominance, prompting detectives to visit the scene, collect evidence and begin targeted operations.

Based on information provided by Mannan Patwary, officers later recovered a foreign pistol with a magazine from a grove in the Nobartek area of Kaichabari.

The police also said that Titu had previously served as a joint general secretary of the Ashulia unit of Awami League’s student wing, Bangladesh Chhatra League.

Md Jalal Uddin, officer-in-charge of Dhaka district north DB, said that preparations were underway to file a regular case with Ashulia Police Station.

--- ARTICLE 10 ---
URL: https://www.newagebd.net/post/country/285061/joint-forces-arrest-33-in-weeklong-drives
TITLE: Joint forces arrest 33 in weeklong drives
DATE: 2025-12-26

Thirty-three people were arrested during a weeklong drive by the joint forces, including Bangladesh Army from Dhaka and parts of the country on various charges.

According to a Facebook post shared by Inter-Services Public Relations on its verified page on Friday, the operations were carried out between December 4 and 11 by different infantry divisions and independent brigades of the army, in coordination with police and other agencies.

During the drives, the law enforcers recovered 10 illegal firearms, 12 rounds of ammunition, 12 crude bombs, various types of narcotics, and both local and foreign sharp weapons.

The detainees have been handed over to local police stations for further action.

Such drives by the Bangladesh Army will continue across the country to ensure public safety, according the ISPR.

In addition to ensuring law and order, the army is assisting authorities in maintaining stability in industrial areas amid labour unrest.

The army urged the public to report to the nearest army camp if any suspicious activity is noticed.

