--- ARTICLE 1 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/bangladesh/us-reaffirms-assist-bangladesh-anti-terrorism-efforts-105772
TITLE: US reaffirms to assist Bangladesh in anti-terrorism efforts
DATE: 2020-07-13T21:50:00+06:00

US Ambassador to Bangladesh Earl Miller has reaffirmed his country's commitment to assisting Bangladesh in its anti-terrorism efforts.

He praised Bangladesh for continuing "to strengthen anti-terrorism efforts on many fronts – through its robust anti-money laundering measures and standing up additional Anti-Terrorism Tribunals around the country".

The US envoy also lauded Bangladesh's endeavour in expanding digital evidence efforts to investigate and prosecute terrorist crimes being committed with computers and through digital media.

Millar made the remark while inaugurating a three-part webinar series entitled "Criminal Influences on the Dark Web and in the Use of Cryptocurrency" organized by the US Embassy here and the US Department of Justice's Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development, Assistance and Training (DOJ-OPDAT) last week, a US embassy press release said today.

While opening the webinar series, Miller praised the law enforcement heroes, including all participants, who bravely and selflessly meet the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic.

He said they "have my respect, admiration, and gratitude for the very difficult and dangerous job [they] do so very well".

Almost 50 prosecutors, investigators, judges, financial analysts, and government officials from Bangladesh met virtually through an interactive online platform to learn how criminal organizations use the dark web and cryptocurrency to conduct drug trafficking, money laundering, and other nefarious activities.

The instructor for the course is the Department of Justice's John Ghose, who is the International Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property Attorney for the Dark Web and Cryptocurrency.

The first session of the series, entitled "Combating Criminal Dark Web Marketplaces during the Covid-19 Pandemic," focused on how criminals use the dark web, through anonymous browsers and hidden services, to capitalize on the anxiety resulting from the pandemic.

The second and third sessions of the series will focus on cryptocurrency – illegal to use or possess in Bangladesh – as a vehicle for payments at dark web marketplaces.

Conducting the three-part "Criminal Influences on the Dark Web and in the Use of Cryptocurrency" webinar series is just one of the many ways the United States works together with Bangladesh government to fight terrorism and transnational crime in the region, said the release.

Since 2016, the United States has obligated over $63.5 million cumulatively for counterterrorism assistance in Bangladesh, including this webinar series offered by OPDAT.

US/Bangladesh/anti-terrorism

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 2 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/thoughts/social-stigma-new-normal-time-covid-19-100996
TITLE: Social Stigma: The New Normal in The Time of Covid-19
DATE: 2020-07-02T16:30:00+06:00

A 50-year-old mother was left at the Sakhipur forest in Tangail at night by her children as they suspected her to be a coronavirus patient.

Local vendors are hanging posters on their shops that say that no migrant workers will be allowed to purchase anything from their shops. An aged woman could not gain access to her own house in Rangpur city just because she traveled back to her home from Dhaka.

Her neighbors and relatives forced her to stay on the street in the middle of the night. The local civil surgeon's office along with law enforcement agency representatives had to help her out of this unfortunate situation.

These are frequently happening in Bangladesh after Covid-19 started spreading at the community level. The question is why are people behaving in such an unfortunate manner with their relatives or neighbors? The simple answer is stigma.

Social stigma is the extreme disapproval of a person or group on socially characteristic grounds that are perceived, and serve to distinguish them, from other members of society. According to the sociologist Erving Goffman, there are three types of Stigma; mental, physical & identification, which are associated with a particular race, ethnicity, religion, ideology, etc. Social stigmas are commonly related to culture, gender, race, intelligence, and health. Social stigma in the context of health is the negative association between a person or group of people who share certain characteristics and a specific disease.

History has shown that epidemics and pandemics tend to provoke xenophobia and social stigma. In the case of an outbreak, this may mean people are labeled, stereotyped, discriminated against, treated separately, and/or experience loss of status because of a perceived link with a disease. In the case of the global Covid-19 pandemic, there is an increasing number of reports of public stigmatization against people from across the world. Even it has brought up many issues and concerns regarding the health and safety of our colleagues, friends, and families in our country even.

One of these important issues which merit our attention is social stigma. Social stigmatization arises from an excessive sense of fear and anxiety, which can express in ugly and disheartening ways, such as through hateful street encounters, verbal attacks, and cyberbullying.

These events have been particularly intense for Covid-19 patients and their family members or frontline workers (doctors, medical professionals & Law Enforces Agencies members) as many of them have been harassed just because of they are Covid-19 positive or are exposed to this virus.

Viruses do not attack people based on their ethnicities. Regardless of race, religion, or creed, we are all susceptible to this global pandemic that is in front of us today. As we seek to make sense of our new normal, we can be equally susceptible to the fear that comes with this crisis. As our nation faces this unprecedented crisis, we must act as one community to support, help, and protect each other.

During times of crisis, it is important to remember that we are all in this together, and everyone must help combat this virus and the stigmatization associated with it. We all have a responsibility to be aware of and address the hate speech, xenophobia, and racism that is present in the workplace and community.

We can stop the spread of social stigma by calling out a hateful rhetoric when we hear or see it in person or online and report such hate speeches to the platforms that host it. We can support individuals who we witness suffer from the brunt of hateful or derogatory comments by being beside them when these incidents occur and letting them know that we do not tolerate bigotry or discrimination of any type.

Youth are agents of change and always come forward to tackle the crisis. They are taking it to the streets and are using online social networks and communities to connect, express their voices, and campaign for change. They are fighting for sustainable development and a better future for the current and new generations.

United Nations believe that the broad inclusion of young people in the peace and security agenda and society is the key to building and sustaining peace. Their role in the workforce and economic development of our nation is critical as they represent, at any given moment, one-third of the workforce in our country. We firmly believe that in this crisis moment young people also have an important role to prevent this social stigma against frontline workers and Covid-19 patients.

To help build and support a peaceful and tolerant society, UNDP Bangladesh's Partnership for a Tolerant, Inclusive Bangladesh (PTIB) launched a creative platform named Digital Khichuri Challenge (DKC) since 2016. The DKC is a competition for Bangladeshi young change-makers who are interested to make the digital space a safer and more tolerant place.

To address these social stigma issues, DKC is offering a special online "social-distancing" version of the challenge that will promote digital solutions against these stigmas and discrimination faced by Covid-19 patients and frontline workers. We are expecting that visionary Bangladeshi youths/ startups will join this challenge to develop platforms and alternatives that will help address issues of intolerance raised throughout the Covid-19 outbreak, as well as the deeper social challenges.

Shidartho Goushami is a project officer of Partnerships for a Tolerant and Inclusive Bangladesh (PTIB) Project, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Bangladesh.

Social Stigma/Thoughts/COVID-19 in Bangladesh

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 3 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/environment/floods-damage-211km-roads-sunamganj-thousands-marooned-102619
TITLE: Floods damage 211km of roads in Sunamganj, thousands marooned
DATE: 2020-07-06T20:50:00+06:00

About 211 kilometres of roads have been damaged by floods caused by heavy rain and onrush of water from upstream in Sunamganj.

The Local Government Engineering Department (LGED) and the Roads and Highways Department (RHD) of Sunamganj said the damage to district-wide roads caused by the floods is estimated at Tk120 crore.

The water in all the rivers in the northern region is flowing over the danger level, marooning thousands of people in Kurigram, Gaibandha and Bogura districts.

The flood situation in Netrokona has improved as the waters of most rivers of the district are receding slowly.

In Sunamganj

The severe floods due to heavy rain and onrush of water from upstream from June 25-29 have caused extensive damage to various infrastructures in Sunamganj. The roads have been badly damaged by the flood.

Meanwhile, people have been suffering as road communication with the district town in three upazilas has been halted due to flood-damaged roads.

Sunamganj LGED and RHD have written to higher authorities seeking Tk120 crore for patch-up work of flood-damaged roads.

Mahbubur Rahman, executive engineer of Sunamganj LGED, said 200 kilometres of roads were washed away by the floods, causing a loss of about Tk100 crore.

"Moreover, if the flood waters recede, the road may be further damaged. We want an allocation for urgent repairs."

Kazi Nazrul Islam, sub-divisional engineer of Sunamganj RHD, said about 11 km of roads have been submerged, causing severe damage.

The severely damaged roads are Bishwambharpur-Kachirgati, Niamatpur-Tahirpur, Jamalganj-Sunamganj, Doarabazar-Sunamganj, Chhatak-Gobindganj.

"We have sent a report of the initial damage to roads worth Tk20.75 crore to higher authorities and sought funds to repair them."Thousands marooned in the north

The water in all the rivers in the northern region is flowing over the danger level, marooning thousands of people in Kurigram, Gaibandha and Bogura districts.

Bogura Water Development Board (WDB) said the Jamuna was flowing 21cm above danger level at Sariakandi point at 6 am. Along with other rivers, the water level of the Bangali river has risen by 75.3 cm.

Apart from people in Sonatala and Dhunat upazilas, about 50,000 people are stranded in Sariakandi upazila of Bogura as well.

Most families in the three upazilas, who are marooned by the flood, are facing a shortage of dry food, cash and pure drinking water.

Flood affected people in remote char areas are facing a shortage of baby food, and aged family members are facing severe difficulty.

The locals said even when they get some government assistance, it is not enough.

Kurigram WDB Executive Engineer Ariful Islam said even though the water upstream of the Brahmaputra and downstream of the Jamuna has started to recede a bit, there is a possibility of rain again in the middle of July, which could lead to fresh floods in Kurigram.

In Netrokona

The flood waters in Netrokona Sadar and Kalmakanda upazilas are slowly receding, but about 70 villages are still submerged.

Netrokona WDB Executive Engineer Md Akhtaruzzaman said at Kalmakanda point, the Someshwari River is flowing 30 cm below danger level.

The Kangsha was flowing 177 cm below the danger level at Zaria point, and the Dhanu river was flowing 84 cm below the danger level at Khaliajuri point.

Flood/Sunamganj

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 4 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/world/us-executes-first-federal-prisoner-nearly-20-years-106222
TITLE: US executes first federal prisoner in nearly 20 years
DATE: 2020-07-14T20:00:00+06:00

The US government on Tuesday executed the first federal prisoner in almost two decades.

Daniel Lewis Lee, 47, of Yukon, Oklahoma is convicted of torturing and killing a family in Arkansas in 1996, and later dumping their bodies in a lake.

He was killed by lethal injection at the federal prison in Terre Haute, Indiana.

"I did not do it. I have made a lot of mistakes in my life, but I'm not a murderer," he said just before execution

His final words were: "You're killing an innocent man."

The decision to move forward with the execution -- the first by the Bureau of Prisons since 2003 -- drew scrutiny from civil rights groups and the relatives of Lee's victims, who had sued to try to halt it, citing concerns about the coronavirus pandemic.

The pandemic has killed more than 135,000 people in the US and is ravaging prisons nationwide.

Critics argued that the government was creating an unnecessary and manufactured urgency for political gain.

"The government has been trying to plow forward with these executions despite many unanswered questions about the legality of its new execution protocol," said Shawn Nolan, one of the attorneys for the men facing federal execution.

The execution of Lee, who was pronounced dead at 8:07 a.m. EDT, went off after a series of legal volleys that ended when the Supreme Court stepped in early Tuesday in a 5-4 ruling and allowed it to move forward.

Attorney General William Barr has said the Justice Department has a duty to carry out the sentences imposed by the courts, including the death penalty, and to bring a sense of closure to the victims and those in the communities where the killings happened.

But relatives of those killed by Lee in 1996 strongly opposed that idea and long argued that Lee deserved a sentence of life in prison. They wanted to be present to counter any contention that the execution was being done on their behalf.

Executions on the federal level have been rare, and the government has put to death only three defendants since restoring the federal death penalty in 1988 — most recently in 2003, when Louis Jones was executed for the 1995 kidnapping, rape and murder of a young female soldier.

Though there hadn't been a federal execution since 2003, the Justice Department has continued to approve death penalty prosecutions and federal courts have sentenced defendants to death.

Numbers of state executions have fallen steadily since the last federal execution, according to data compiled by the Death Penalty Information Center. States put to death 59 people in 2004 and 22 in 2019, nine of which were in Texas.

US/USA/Prisoner Executed/Federal Prisoner Executed

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 5 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/bangladesh/health/28-dghs-officials-transferred-112087
TITLE: 28 DGHS officials transferred
DATE: 2020-07-27T13:20:00+06:00

Some 28 officials of Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) have been transferred from their current positions and workplaces.

A gazette notification signed by Director (administrtion) of DGHS Dr Belal Hossain made the disclosure.

The concerned officers have been asked to join the new posts by 12 pm on July 28.

Of the employees, eight were transferred to Dhaka Airport Health Office and 20 were transferred to Shaheed Suhrawardy Medical College and Hospital.

However, among them there are no official from important positions.

The transferred officers including Dr Dipon Debnath, Dr Pabon Dhar, Dr Aby Sayeed, Dr Koushik Ahmed, Dr Nazibul Haque, Dr Mahmudul Karim, Dr Momena Begum Joly, Dr Anika Haque, Dr Maria Siraj, Dr Mostafizur Rahman, Dr Roksana Ferdous, Dr Moinul Hossain, Dr Wazedul Islam, Dr Md Minhaj Uddin, Dr Fatema Khanom, Dr Taufiq Alam Siddiq, Dr Sharmin Akhter Nitu, Dr Niaj Rahman, Dr Maruf Raiyan Khan, Dr Pavel Rahman, Dr Jahida Abedin and Dr Gazi Saker.

DGHS/transferred/DGHS officials transferred/healthcare officials/Transfer

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 6 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/coronavirus-chronicle/coronavirus-may-not-have-originated-china-oxford-university-expert-102523
TITLE: Coronavirus may not have originated in China: Oxford University expert
DATE: 2020-07-06T15:40:00+06:00

An Oxford University expert believes that the novel coronavirus may not have emanated from China, rather it stayed dormant across the world and turned up when the environmental conditions were congenial for it to thrive.

Dr Tom Jefferson, senior associate tutor at the Centre for Evidence-based medicine (CEBM) at Oxford and visiting professor at Newcastle University, argues that there is growing evidence that the virus was elsewhere before it appeared in Asia, reports The Telegraph in an exclusive report.

He said, "I think the virus was already here, here meaning everywhere. We may be seeing a dormant virus that has been activated by environmental conditions."

Last week, Spanish virologists announced they had found traces of the disease in the samples of wastewater collected in March 2019, nine months before the coronavirus disease was seen in China.

Italian scientists had also found evidence of coronavirus in sewage samples in Milan and Turin, in mid-December, weeks before the first case was detected, while experts found traces in Brazil in November.

Dr Jefferson believes that many viruses lie dormant throughout the globe and emerge when the conditions are favourable, which means they can depart as quickly as they arrived.

"Where did Sars 1 go? It's just disappeared," he said, adding "So we have to think about these things. We need to start researching the ecology of the virus, understanding how it originates and mutates," he said.

Mentioning a case in the Falkland Islands in early February, he said, "Now where did that come from? There was a cruise ship that went from South Georgiato Buenos Aires, and the passengers were screened and then on day eight, when they started sailing towards the Weddell Sea, they got the first case. Was it in prepared food that was defrosted and activated?"

He further said that strange things like this happened with Spanish Flu. In 1918 around 30 percent of the population of Western Samoa died of Spanish Flu, and they hadn't had any communication with the outside world.

"The explanation for this could only be that these agents don't come or go anywhere. They are always here and something ignites them, maybe human density or environmental conditions, and this is what we should be looking for," he added.

Dr Jefferson believes that the virus may be transmitted through the sewage system or shared toilet facilities, not just through droplets expelled by talking, coughing and sneezing.

Writing in The Telegraph, Dr Jefferson and Professor Carl Henegehan, Director Of the CEBM, call for an in-depth investigation similar to that carried out by John Snow in 1854, which showed cholera was spreading in London from uninfected well in Soho.

Exploring why so many outbreaks happen at food factories and meatpacking plants could uncover major new transmission routes, they believe. It may be shared toilet facilities coupled with cool conditions that allow the virus to thrive.

"We're doing a living review, extracting environmental conditions, the ecology of these viruses which has been grossly understudied," said Dr Jefferson.

"There is quite a lot of evidence that huge amounts of the virus in sewage all over the place, and an increasing amount of evidence there is faecal transmission. There is a high concentration where sewage is four degrees, which is the ideal temperature for it to be stabled and presumably activated. And meatpacking plants are often at four degrees.

"These meat packing clusters and isolated outbreaks don't fit with respiratory theory, they fit with people who haven't washed their hands properly.

"These outbreaks need to be investigated properly with people on the ground one by one. You need to do what John Snow did. You question people, and you start constructing hypotheses that fit the facts, not the other way around."

Coronavirus/Oxford University/originated/China

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 7 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/tech/google-shuts-down-cloud-project-says-no-plan-offer-cloud-services-china-103798
TITLE: Google shuts down cloud project, says no plan to offer cloud services in China
DATE: 2020-07-09T09:15:00+06:00

Alphabet Inc's Google said on Wednesday it has shut down its cloud project named "Isolated Region" and added that it was not weighing options to offer its cloud platform in China.

Earlier in the day, Bloomberg News reported, citing two employees, that Google had shelved the project in China and other politically sensitive countries in May, partly due to rising geopolitical tensions and the pandemic.

The search engine giant, however, said that the project's shutdown was not due to either of those two reasons and that it has not offered cloud platform services in China.

"Isolated Region" was just one of the paths explored by the company to address requirements related to adoption of cloud technology, a company spokesperson said.

The project aimed to provide cloud services to customers and regulatory bodies around the world.

google/cloud project/China

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 8 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/economy/fair-information-must-strong-economy-chartered-accountants-104947
TITLE: Fair information a must for strong economy: Chartered accountants
DATE: 2020-07-11T22:45:00+06:00

The strongest and most resilient economies are those where people can trust information so that leaders can make well-informed decisions, businesses can be held to account and public finances are transparent.

International and regional experts made the observations at a virtual conference on the Role of Chartered Accountants in Economic Recovery and Promoting Cross-Border Investments organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB) on Saturday.

Salman F Rahman, a lawmaker and private sector industry and investment adviser to the prime minister, attended the conference as the chief guest and called for a greater role of chartered accountants to cooperate with the government.

Manil Jaysinghe, president CA Sri Lanka, was present as a special guest while Dr In-Ki Joo, president of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), was present as a guest of honour.

Robert Hodgkinson, executive director (technical) at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, in his key note presentation said that, during the pandemic-disruption, the accountancy profession has a vital role to play.

The skills that the accountancy profession develops and applies are the fundamentals in building a world of strong economies, he also said.

"Under the current pressures of the pandemic, they all must take a particular care in their conduct and judgements," added the accountant from the United Kingdom.

Behaving ethically often requires making tough decisions, which often means putting the public interest first, above and beyond any other interests, he further said.

ICAB President Muhammad Farooq said the coronavirus pandemic hit Bangladesh's economy hard and jeopardised the country's impressive achievements, especially in poverty reduction.

ICAB as a professional institute is providing suggestions to the government in preparation of well-thought-out recovery plans and action programmes to tackle the toxic impact of the deadly disease on economy, he said.

Expert professionals of the institute are involved in analysing the impact of Covid-19 on different sectors of the economy and suggesting the proper strategies and plans for the recovery directly and indirectly.

"We have very important responsibilities for building business confidence among the stakeholders ensuring our trust leadership," he added.

ICAB Vice President Sabbir Ahmed made opening remarks while past president Md Humayun Kabir moderated the session.

Mohammed Forkan Uddin, vice president of ICAB, delivered the vote of thanks.

Fair Information/Economy/Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB)/ICAB

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 9 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/economy/stock/general-insurance-sector-share-prices-soar-amid-earning-decline-105778
TITLE: General insurance sector share prices soar amid earning decline
DATE: 2020-07-13T21:55:00+06:00

Investors in the stock market witnessed a sudden 4.2 percent return on general insurance sector shares last week while the earnings of 60 percent of the companies decreased in the first quarter of the current financial year.

In the last week, general insurance held 9.7 percent of total turnover at the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE).

The market capitalisation of general insurance is only Tk4,652 crore or 1.8 percent of  total market capital at the DSE. The price earnings ratio stood at 11.7 while the DSE price earnings ratio was 15.85.

A top official of a leading brokerage house, on condition of anonymity, said that most of the general insurance companies have low capital.

"So, the investors can easily manipulate their share price. Otherwise there is no reason to increase their share price on the floor price mechanism," he said.

General insurance business mostly depends on letters of credit for export-import. However, amid the pandemic, export-import businesses are under pressure, he added.

Among the 35 general insurance companies listed on the DSE, 17 companies declared dividends to their shareholders for the 2019 financial year, and 15 of them published a first quarter earnings report this year.

Out of the enlisted companies, only Prime Insurance failed to pay a dividend to its shareholders and two companies - named Peoples Insurance Company Limited and Paramount Insurance Company Ltd paid dividends below 10 percent.

Dividends of 56 percent of companies remain unchanged, while 78 percent of companies posted moderate growth last year.

The highest 25 percent cash dividend was paid by Reliance Insurance and their earnings also grew by 18 percent for the 2019 financial year.

In the first quarter of the current year, it posted a 21 percent growth in its earnings.

Meanwhile, 15 companies in the general insurance sector published their first quarter reports of the current financial year.

Out of the 60 percent companies, profit declined due to the worldwide outbreak of the novel coronavirus, while two companies named Prime Insurance and Paramount Insurance posted losses.

United Insurance has published its half yearly report of this year. The company posted a 59 percent fall in profit during the period. In the countrywide general holiday period, the company's profit declined by 74 percent.

Sheikh Kabir Hossain, president of Bangladesh Insurance Association told The Business Standard that they were facing tough times due to an economic slowdown in the pandemic period.

Seeking anonymity, a senior official of a leading insurance company said that in the last year insurance regulators had strictly banned unethical commission business in this sector and fixed the operational expense limit.

In this regard many companies lost their businesses, but this loss was for a short time. This regulatory movement will play a positive role in the future, he added.

A market insider said that to convince consumers to buy an insurance policy, the industry was reliant on agents who persistently contact potential clients.

"These agents have to be paid a portion of the first year's premium as well as a smaller percentage of future premiums collected from the customer. To encourage these agents, insurers may offer commissions up to 70 percent. These practises are badly affecting claims settlement," he added.

According to LightCastle Partners, as most companies are concentrated in urban areas, there is a large market in rural areas that is not being accessed.

A lack of enabling regulations, infrastructure, and market data limits the quality of insurance products, as well as their coverage. This is evident as even though Motor Third Party Liability insurance is compulsory, it only has a penetration of 70 percent, says the consulting firm.

Insurers earn returns on the assets they invest with funds raised from premiums collected. Policy mandates that 30 percent of the funds be invested in government securities and the remainder can be invested in shares, fixed assets and fixed deposits.

DSE/Stock

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

--- ARTICLE 10 ---
URL: https://www.tbsnews.net/coronavirus-chronicle/how-vietnam-became-nation-without-coronavirus-deaths-107224
TITLE: How Vietnam became a nation without coronavirus deaths
DATE: 2020-07-16T19:05:00+06:00

Half a year into the Covid-19 pandemic, the people of Vietnam still practice health measures strictly. The nation reported no deaths from the disease and no local infections for more than two months now.

If one were to enter a cafe in Vietman, they would probably be met by a security guard who would spray their hands with disinfectant. Or, if getting on a bus, they will be told to put on a mask and sit one row apart from others.

Statistics put Vietnam in a unique spot as the biggest nation by population to report no deaths, despite its border with China and limited resources, reports The Voice of America.

The statistics have ignited a debate, pitting those skeptical that a one-party state could have such success without fixing the data against those who resent the criticism. There are autocracies like China and Iran, suspected of covering up Covid-19 deaths, and open societies like New Zealand and South Korea, whose success has gone unquestioned.

Official data from the state cannot be verified; though health experts say Vietnam headed off a full-blown calamity because of its drastic and early action.

The Vietnamese government was hyper-aware of the threat to hospital and quarantine capacity. In a meeting on March 24, Ho Chi Minh City leaders said the nation could handle 1,000 cases of the coronavirus. Beyond that, they feared the health system could be inundated, as in Italy and Spain.

"During the next 10 days to two weeks, do not allow the number of cases to exceed 1,000 nationwide, otherwise the risk of disease outbreaks is very high," a summary of the meeting on the city government website said.

Vietnam reported 381 coronavirus cases so far in 2020, according to Worldometer.

The US and Vietnam both reported their first cases in the same week in January. The US could have avoided the Covid-19-related deaths if it had begun a lockdown on March 8 instead of March 15, according to Columbia University.

By contrast, Vietnam saw the disease as a threat early on, treating its first patient in January and proceeding to contact trace and restrict movement.

The Ho Chi Minh City government said, for instance, that for every 300 people infected, 84,000 people had to quarantine. It is likely that Vietnam did not have to cover up mass infections and deaths because it acted before the virus could reach that point.

"If it was hit with the thousands, ten thousands, hundreds of thousands of cases that are being seen in other countries, it also would be overwhelmed like other countries," Todd Pollack, head of the Harvard Medical School Partnership for Health Advancement in Vietnam, said on US television network PBS.

"But, at the current state, that is not the situation here."

In addition to national coordination, targeted testing and isolation, Vietnam can decree measures regardless of public debate, like tapping a national security network to monitor the physical and virtual space.

"Standing vice chairman of the People's Committee, Le Thanh Liem, urged local authorities and other relevant agencies to visit every house to find out if anyone has come from other countries since March 8 and test and quarantine anyone at risk at home or quarantine areas," said a Vietnamese government news agency report.

Vietnam used fines and takedown orders to curb the spread of false information about the virus, as have other nations. A history of censorship of information also continued on whatever that the Southeast Asian government considered as unfavorable.

A study by 11 authors published in April in science journal Sustainability, stated that Social media allowed some false information to spread in Vietnam, but also greatly heightened people's awareness of the virus and what they should do.

According to the study, Vietnam's success came from "mobilizing citizens' awareness of disease prevention without spreading panic, via fostering genuine cooperation between government, civil society and private individuals."

Vietnam

While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Published comments are readers’ own views and The Business Standard does not endorse any of the readers’ comments.

